# Notes to the Unit-1 Differentiation -> Part A : Definition And Basic Rules.  
## [Session 1&2](https://github.com/Beckhol/MIT18.01-Single-variable-calculus-Notes/blob/main/Differentiation/Part%20A%20:%20Definition%20And%20Basic%20Rules/Session%201-2.md)  
[Session 1: Introduction to derivatives] provides a brief overview of Unit 1 and describes the derivative as the slope of a tangent line. It concludes by stating the main formula defining the derivative.    
[Session 2: Examples of derivatives] we apply the main formula for the derivative to the functions 1/x and x^n. We’ll also solve a problem using a derivative and give some alternate notations for writing derivatives.
## [Session 3&4](https://github.com/Beckhol/MIT18.01-Single-variable-calculus-Notes/blob/main/Differentiation/Part%20A%20:%20Definition%20And%20Basic%20Rules/Session%203-4.md)
[Session 3: Derivatives as Rate of Change] We understand slope as the change in y coordinate divided by the change in x coordinate. Considering change in position over time or change in temperature over distance, we see that the derivative can also be interpreted as a rate of change. If we think of an inaccurate measurement as “changed” from the true value we can apply derivatives to determine the impact of errors on our calculations.  
[Session 4: Limits and Continuity] The main formula for the derivative involves a limit. This session discusses limits in more detail and introduces the related concept of continuity.  
## [Session 5&6](https://github.com/Beckhol/CS-Notes-18.01-Single-Variable-Calculus/blob/main/Differentiation/Part%20A%20:%20Definition%20And%20Basic%20Rules/Session%205-6.md)  
[Session 5: Diiscontinuity] Derivatives are defined in terms of limits of functions. Where those functions are not continuous, limits (and derivatives) may be undefined. This session discusses the different ways functions may be discontinuous and how differentiability is related to continuity.  
[Session 6: Calculating Derivatives] Finding derivatives of varied functions requires a variety of tools. This session uses the main formula to find the derivative of the sum of two functions. 
## [Session 7&8](https://github.com/Beckhol/CS-Notes-18.01-Single-Variable-Calculus/blob/main/Differentiation/Part%20A%20:%20Definition%20And%20Basic%20Rules/Session%207-8.md)    
[Session 7: Derivatives of Sine and Cosine] The sine and cosine functions are used to describe periodic phenomena such as sound, temperature and tides. Trying to differentiate these functions leaves us with two limits to investigate further.  
[Session 8: Limits of Sine and Cosine] When we tried to differentiate the sine and cosine functions we were left with two limits to calculate. In this session Professor Jerison calculates these limits, taking a close look at the unit circle and applying some fundamental ideas from linear approximation.  

